 During the summer of 2000, lots of car-drivers in America were angry. The cost of gasoline went above $2 a gallon in some states. The age of cheap gasolene was over.
    Today, in 2014, the gas costs at least $ 3.10 a gallon  throughout the USA. In Maine and Ohio, even regular gas costs almost $4 a gallon.
    This is very cheap compared to Europe,* * but Americans think that it is very expensive. 

    The United States is the land of relatively cheap energy; America is the second biggest producer of oil in the world, but it is also the biggest importer. In fact, the USA imports over 20% of its energy, mostly in the form of oil.
    There is oil under the ground in many parts of the USA. America's first oil wells were drilled in the year 1859, in Pennsylvania; and since then, more and more wells have been made in other states.
    Today, oil companies are "fracking", and finding lots more oil under the ground.
The centre of America's oil industry today is the state of Texas; and America's "oil capital" is the city of Dallas. Texas is by far the biggest producer of oil in the USA.
    It was not always the case; the first Texan oil-wells were opened in 1901, when there was already a big oil industry in other parts of the USA. But without the oil from Texas, America's history would have been very different. 
    In 2001, Texans celebrated their "oil centenary".

    Cheap oil and cheap gasoline helped to make modern America. They shaped America's cities, and they were an essential part of the American lifestyle. They were also essential in the great empty states of the West, where people often have to travel long distances.
    Today, Americans consume about 25% of the world's energy.... far more than people in other countries; but the situation is slowly changing.
    Americans are already buying smaller cars, and American cars consume much less gas than they used to. But in the coming years, they will use less and less oil. They will have to.
    There is still a lot of oil under the ground, but oil and gas must become more expensive in the future. Over 50% of America's traditional oil reserves have already been used - mostly since 1950. Nobody knows when America's oil will start running out, but the first problems could come in less than 20 years. And as soon as oil starts running out, its price will go up very quickly!
    In conclusion, the "two dollar gallon" was good for America. It has encouraged Americans to buy smaller cars, and to use less energy. That way, America's oil will last longer..... perhaps until the age of clean green energy arrives.