Do ghosts really exist? There are lots of people who say that they do; and I am one of them.
     Many of Britain's ancient castles have ghosts. One of the most famous "haunted castles" in England is actually the Tower of London .
    During the Tower's long history, many men and women were thrown into its dark dungeons, or executed outside its gates! Among the most famous was Lady Jane Grey, Queen of England in the year 1554.
jane was just 17 when she became Queen, on July 9th 1554; however, at the same time another woman, Mary, thought that she ought to be Queen. Mary's supporters were stronger than Jane's, and within days Jane was sent to the Tower of London. On 19th July poor Jane had her head cut off outside the Tower!
 Since then, it is said that the ghost of Lady Jane Grey wanders through the rooms and corridors of the Tower of London.
    Other ghosts are not so famous. The village of Prestbury, in Gloucestershire, is reputed to be one of the most haunted villages in England.
    Many villagers have heard - and some say they have seen - the "headless horseman" who rides through the village on December 31st! People say that he was a soldier who fought in the English Civil War, in the 17th century.

    In the same village, in an old cottage, there is a ghost known as the "spinette player". Sometimes at night, people hear the sound of someone playing this old musical instrument. The music always comes from a room that is empty.
    These are just some of Britain's well-known ghosts; but there are lots of less-known ghosts too. I know; I have encountered one of them.
 Several years ago, I went to stay with some friends who lived in an old house in the country. I had not told them I was coming, and when I arrived, they already had other visitors.
    "Never mind," said my friend Ella. "You can sleep in the small guest room. We don't often use it, but you'll be all right for one night."
    As we said goodnight, Ella added. "Oh, and please, lock the door before you go to bed. Otherwise it may open by itself."
    Well I locked the door, lay down in bed, and went to sleep. During the night, I slept badly; I didn't really know if I was asleep or awake. But suddenly, I knew I was awake. Hands were touching my face. I tried to push them away, but there was nothing. I found the light switch, and put on the light. There was no one in the room.
    "It was just a dream," I thought. And I went back to sleep.
    When I woke up next morning, I got another surprise. The door, which I had shut and locked, was open! During breakfast, I told Ella about my strange dream, and about the open door.
    "You too!" she replied. "Yes, I know. that's why we don't often use that bedroom. It's the blind lady!"
    "What blind lady?" I asked.
    "Well, you see, many years ago, the people who lived here had a daughter who was blind. That was her bedroom. She died when she was about 30. And since then, she has kept coming back to her room. She always feels the sheets, before getting into bed. Several visitors have had the same experience..... But she was a lovely girl. She has never hurt anyone."
    I felt the skin on the back of my neck go cold.... Since then, I have always believed in ghosts!